---
toc: true
layout: post
description: VPN
categories: [C4.3]
title: Virtual Private Networks
permalink: /tutorial/vpn
author: Yash Shah
image: images/VPN.png
---

## What Are VPN's?

Virtual Private Networks, or VPNs establish a protected network connection when using public networks. VPNs encrypt your internet traffic and disguise your online identity. This makes it more difficult for third parties to track your activities online and steal data.

## How Does A VPN Work

A VPN hides your IP address by letting the network redirect it through a specially configured remote server run by a VPN host. This means that if you surf online with a VPN, the VPN server becomes the source of your data. This means your Internet Service Provider (ISP) and other third parties cannot see which websites you visit or what data you send and receive online, and which can only be accessed if one's VPN gets hacked; however, that is extremely unlikely to happen because VPN's are very securely encrypted. A VPN works like a filter that turns all your data into "gibberish". Even if someone were to get their hands on your data, it would be useless.

## Setting Up A VPN (MacOS)

1. Navigate to your browser and search for a VPN and follow the websites directions for installation
2. Go to “System Preferences” and then “Network”
3. Click on the plus sign in the bottom left corner and use the drop-down menu to choose your VPN
4. Fill in the details for your chosen VPN in the fields “VPN Type” and “Service Name”
5. Create a new VPN network and fill in your “Server Address,” “Remote ID” and “Local ID”
6. Enter “Authentication Settings” and add your username and password
7. Click “OK” and Connect your VPN

## Setting Up A VPN (Windows)

1. Navigate to your browser and search for a VPN and follow the websites directions for installation
2. Move into “Settings” and click on “Network” and then “VPN”
3. Click “Add a VPN” and fill out the fields for “Server Name,” “VPN Type” and your account information, which should be shared by the VPN provider you chose
4. Save your VPN
5. Go back into “VPN,” click on your newly added account and press “Connect”

## Using A VPN

There are a host of different reasons to use a VPN. Below, I have listed a few reasons to sue a VPN

- Make public Wi-Fi more secure
- Protect your mobile devices
- Hide your IP address
- Data Privacy From Your Internet Service Provider
- Data Privacy From the Apps and Services You Use
- Access to Any Content in Any Place (Streaming shows that are on other countries Netflix)
- Les likely to get hacked

## Recommended Software (Free)

- Proton VPN Free
- Privado VPN
- Windscribe
- Atlas VPN
- Hide.me
- Betternet (500 MB per day, as long as you don't overuse data for one day which is extremely unlikely to happen)

## Recommended Software (Paid)

- ExpressVPN (~$9/month)
- SurfShark ($5/month)
- NordVPN ($3.69/month for 2 years)
- ProtonVPN ($6/month)
- IPVanish ($3.33/month for the first year, then $7.5/month)