---
toc: true
comments: false
layout: post
title: CTE
description: APCSP is a CTE class. What does that mean? How does this class benefit you in the future?
image: 
permalink: /techtalk/cte
categories: []
type: human
week: 9
---

# Software and Systems Development Pathway
Students in the Software and Systems Development pathway prepare for careers related to computer science that involve the design, development, implementation, maintenance, and management of systems that rely on software programs to satisfy the operational needs of modern business organizations. Persons with expertise in systems development and programming are critical to support operations like electronic commerce, medical records management, retail sales and inventory management, digital entertainment, and use of energy.

## Sample occupations associated with this pathway:
- Computer Programmer
- Software Developer/Applications
- Information Security Analyst
- Web Developer
- E-Business/E-Commerce Specialist

## Key Ideas/Standards
1. Identify and apply the systems development process.

2. Define and analyze systems and software requirements.

3. Create effective interfaces between humans and technology.

4. Develop software using programming languages.

5. Test, debug, and improve software development work.

6. Integrate a variety of media into development projects.

7. Develop Web and online projects.

8. Develop databases.

9. Develop software for a variety of devices, including robotics.

10. Develop intelligent computing.

# Hacks
Blog about your experience in this CTE class
- What standards have we hit so far? Which assignment do they relate to?
- What standards are you looking forward to learning more about?
- What other careers can you benefit from being in this pathway?